Well at this point I think I'd like to work on the foot.
We're getting to the stage where we need to begin figuring out how tall this guy is going to be.
Now I've brought him above the grid so far about this far.
But let's add the foot and then we may need to move this guy up or down depending on the relationship
with the flat.
So let's work on that.
I think just to block it out first I'm going to create a cube here and scale it down and I want to have
this be just kind of the temporary heel for the foot.
I think I will a couple of things here I think I'm going to change the pivot point from the 3D cursor
to median point.
So now that move manipulator is there in the center of that object.
I'm going to press the three key to go to side view here to the right camera and then press the five
key to go to orthographic view.
And now I'm just going to place this so that this will be maybe the Heagle of the foot and I'll press
shift D and click to duplicate this and move this forward for the toe.
All right.
So let's see what this is going to look like.
So from the side view is this a good size for the foot.
Now it's kind of big.
However it might work.
Let's let's take the rest of this thing and move it up some.
So I'm going to change from local transformation to global I'm going to go into wireframe and I'm going
to press the B key and click and drag to border select this and I'll hit the Z key again to come back
out of wireframe.
And now I think I'm just going to move this up.
Let me go to the front camera and the five four orthographic and let me see how big do I want this
maybe something like that.
Like the foot the lower leg would come down about like that.
Let's take a look at it from the side view here.
Move this forward maybe just a little bit and this is why I've been keeping things fairly rough and
simple here at the beginning is just to be able to move things around like this in case we needed to.
Let me try it a little bit taller.
So I'm thinking something like this.
And of course for the Mac you're building it's completely up to you.
How tall and what the proportions should be and what I want here is kind of a heel piece and a toe.
And I'll put a joint in between here as well.
So now that I've decided on the proportions and size of the foot I think I'll move these over to a new
layer here a third layer.
So I select those objects I'll press the M key and then I'll choose the third layer here and that will
move those over.
Now if I come over and select that layer there they are isolated on their own.
So I come over here to the modifiers panel click add modifier click subdivision surface and if I go
into edit mode with the tab key I can see my original mesh cage here.
And so to get the shape I want and I'm going to begin inserting edge loops so press control are.
And for this I will insert an edge loop by clicking and then I'm going to pull it back toward the heel
of the foot and that gives me a little bit of a rounded edge up here.
Maybe I'll insert an edge or loop down the center here and maybe if I press control tab and good edge
I can slide this edge and bring it out just a bit like this.
Now for this other one let's do the same kind of thing.
I'm going to add the subdivision surface modifier press the tab key hit the A key to de-select.
Now let's work on adding enough resolution to make this the shape that we want.
So press control are and maybe this could use three subdivisions.
Let's see how this works click and then click again and let's add one down the center here.
And for this once again maybe I could select that edge and pull it back a bit.
I just want to add one edge loop here on the side maybe even pull it down a bit.
So the bottom is a little flatter and I'll do that with this one as well.
So now that I have the basic shape that I want and I'm going to apply the modifiers so that I can work
with the resolution that I see here.
So if I selected this and hit the tab key here I'd still see the original cage but if I come over here
and click on this button here I can kind of see how the polygons will be split up if I increase the
view here you can see a little bit more how the polygons would be split up into smaller segments but
I'm going to keep it at one here so I'm going to go to object mode and I'm going to press apply now.
Hit the tab key you can see how it has broken it up into these smaller faces and that's good that's
what we want for this.
I'll do the same thing for this one click apply.
And there we have a little more resolution to the object.
I think I can remove this edge and perhaps this edge and do a little bit better with this.
Now the way to delete edges is once again to hit the x key for delete.
But instead of just hitting edges you need to come down here to dissolve edges.
Because if I just click edges I get that.
And that's not what I want someone to undo that and I'll press X and then dissolve edges allows me to
get rid of those edges while still keeping all the faces.
So now I can select these edges and begin spacing them out so that I get four nicely spaced polygons
for my extrusion here.
So now if I select four this way I'll also select four this way.
So now I've got all of these faces that I can delete to insert my round shape or my cylinder and when
I create that cylinder I'm going to have to create it using four times 4 or 16 sides so I'll hit the
x key and delete faces.
Why don't I move this pivot point into the center of this edge here so I'll go to edge mode and press
alt and select and now move the pivot point with shift s using cursor to selected.
And now when I create that cylinder it'll pop into the center of this object for the 3D cursor is.
So I create a cylinder.
It's kind of big but that's OK.
And we'll change this to what did we say 16.
And we're going to want the cap Phil to be triangle.
All right.
So now if we go to face mode de-selected with the key hit the B key and select all of these faces and
delete them delete faces.
Now we can begin moving this and scaling this so it fits within this object.
I'm going to pull this down here and go to the tools tab and move the origin back to the center of the
geometry we go.
So scale this down and move it down here to where the object is let's maybe go to the side view here
and take a look at placing it well here.
And we go I just need to select this object and shift select the first and press control J to join them
together.
Then when I hit the tab key to go into edit mode.
Now that we can see they're all one object all press control tab and go into edge mode.
Now to connect the two pieces of this object we've selected points and used the merge table with alt
M but let's try something different here let's try to use the bridge tool.
What I'm going to do is all select this edge so it selects the whole thing all the way around and then
I'll press shift alt and select this edge to select that entire edge loop as well.
Now what let's do is let's try the bridge tool under the edges menu.
So going to press control easy to get to the edges menu.
You can also press control f to get to the faces menu or control V to get to the vertices menu.
But let's do control E and then down here is bridge edge loops.
So I'll just click this and see what happens.
And there we go those begin to connect up there.
So now we have our foot here with a round piece that we can extrude out to place the joint or the ankle
into.